README.md, before:

# pkgdown <img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" />
# DatawRappr

The goal of DatawRappr is to provide a wrapper for Datawrapper's API to connect data from R directly with Datawrapper's charts capabilities. Currently this package uses Datawrapper API [v1.0](https://developer.datawrapper.de/docs) - while [version 3.0](https://developer.datawrapper.de/v3.0/docs) is still in beta. Once 3.0 is out of beta, this package will be adapted.

Key features:

* Sets a API-Key to the environment and retrieves it in each R-session via `datawrapper_auth()`

All other functions are preceded by `dw_`:

* allows test calls to the API via `dw_test_key()`
* creates a new Datawrapper chart via `dw_create_chart()`
* adds data from a R-dataframe to an existing Datawrapper chart via `dw_data_to_chart()`
* retrieves (`dw_retrieve_chart_metadata()`) or edits metadata, description and visualization of an existing chart via `dw_edit_chart()`
* publishes and republishes a Datawrapper chart via `dw_publish_chart()`
* deletes an Datawrapper chart via `dw_delete_chart()`

## Installation

Right now this package is experimental and only available on Github:

```{r}
# install.packages("devtools") # if not already installed on your system
devtools::install_github("munichrocker/DatawRappr")
```

## Usage

```{r}
library(DatawRappr)
```

### Setting up the API-key

To use the API you have to create an API key on Datawrapper.

Click on **Dashboard** - **Settings** and move down to the section that says **API Access Tokens**.

Click on **Create new personal access token**, enter a name and save the token:

![](man/figures/gif_api_key.gif)

Copy the API key in the clipboard and use

```{r}
datawrapper_auth(api_key = "12345678")
```

to save the key to our system. If a key already exists, you will be asked to replace it or not.

To make sure, your key is working as expected, you can run

```{r}
dw_test_key()
```

with no arguments. It will then use the saved key from the environment. If the key is correct, you will receive a response from the API with personal details about your account. 

Note: If you want to see your currently saved API key, you can use the helper function `dw_get_api_key()`.

Congratulations, you're good to go!

### Making API-calls

To **create an empty chart**, you can use

```{r}
dw_create_chart()
```

which will use the API key stored locally on your system. By default, Datawrapper will create an empty linechart, without a title. The function prints a large list with the metadata-elements from the API.

To **populate that chart with data**, you can run

```{r}
dw_data_to_chart(x = DATAFRAME, chart_id = CHART_ID)
```

which uploads an R data.frame to an Datawrapper chart. The data.frame should already be in the right format, only including the expected columns for the chart. The API will asume, that the first row contains headers. If that's not true, you have to edit the metadata:

```{r}
dw_edit_chart(chart_id = CHART_ID, data = list(`horizontal-header` = "false"))
```

Datawrapper offers a lot of variability in editing it's charts' metadata. You can find a whole [Documentation here](https://developer.datawrapper.de/docs/chart-properties-1).

To speed things up, the `dw_edit_chart()`-function has some built-in arguments for common transformations:

* `title`
* `intro` which is the text below the title
* `annotate` which is the text below the plot
* `source_name` which states the source
* `source_url` which links to the source - but only if a `source_name` is provided.

When you're finished editing your chart, you might want to publish it:

```{r}
dw_publish_chart(chart_id = CHART_ID)
```

This function returns a URL to the chart and the embed code.

## Under the hood

This package makes heavy use of the [`httr`](https://github.com/r-lib/httr)-package, which on itself is a wrapper of the [curl](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/curl/index.html)-package.

## Further Links

There is a API-documentation with examples [from Datawrapper](https://developer.datawrapper.de/docs/getting-started).

Commit message:

include S3-object as substitution for chart_id / change readme accordingly

README.md, after:

# pkgdown <img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" />
# DatawRappr

The goal of DatawRappr is to provide a wrapper for Datawrapper's API to connect data from R directly with Datawrapper's charts capabilities. Currently this package uses Datawrapper API [v1.0](https://developer.datawrapper.de/docs) - while [version 3.0](https://developer.datawrapper.de/v3.0/docs) is still in beta. Once 3.0 is out of beta, this package will be adapted.

Key features:

* Sets a API-Key to the environment and retrieves it in each R-session via `datawrapper_auth()`

All other functions are preceded by `dw_`:

* allows test calls to the API via `dw_test_key()`
* creates a new Datawrapper chart via `dw_create_chart()`
* adds data from a R-dataframe to an existing Datawrapper chart via `dw_data_to_chart()`
* retrieves (`dw_retrieve_chart_metadata()`) or edits metadata, description and visualization of an existing chart via `dw_edit_chart()`
* publishes and republishes a Datawrapper chart via `dw_publish_chart()`
* deletes an Datawrapper chart via `dw_delete_chart()`

## Installation

Right now this package is experimental and only available on Github:

```{r}
# install.packages("devtools") # if not already installed on your system
devtools::install_github("munichrocker/DatawRappr")
```

## Usage

```{r}
library(DatawRappr)
```

### Setting up the API-key

To use the API you have to create an API key on Datawrapper.

Click on **Dashboard** - **Settings** and move down to the section that says **API Access Tokens**.

Click on **Create new personal access token**, enter a name and save the token:

![](man/figures/gif_api_key.gif)

Copy the API key in the clipboard and use

```{r}
datawrapper_auth(api_key = "12345678")
```

to save the key to our system. If a key already exists, you will be asked to replace it or not.

To make sure, your key is working as expected, you can run

```{r}
dw_test_key()
```

with no arguments. It will then use the saved key from the environment. If the key is correct, you will receive a response from the API with personal details about your account. 

Note: If you want to see your currently saved API key, you can use the helper function `dw_get_api_key()`.

Congratulations, you're good to go!

### Making API-calls

To **create an empty chart**, you can use

```{r}
dw_create_chart()
```

which will use the API key stored locally on your system. By default, Datawrapper will create an empty linechart, without a title. The function returns a _dw_chart_-object with the metadata-elements from the API. This object can be used to populate the `chart_id`-argument in all other functions - which means you don't have to deal with it.

To **populate that chart with data**, you can run

```{r}
dw_data_to_chart(x = DATAFRAME, chart_id = CHART_ID)
```

which uploads an R data.frame to an Datawrapper chart. The data.frame should already be in the right format, only including the expected columns for the chart. The API will asume, that the first row contains headers. If that's not true, you have to edit the metadata afterwards:

```{r}
dw_edit_chart(chart_id = CHART_ID, data = list(`horizontal-header` = "false"))
```

Datawrapper offers a lot of variability in editing it's charts' metadata. You can find a whole [Documentation here](https://developer.datawrapper.de/docs/chart-properties-1).

To speed things up, the `dw_edit_chart()`-function has some built-in arguments for common transformations:

* `title`
* `intro` which is the text below the title
* `annotate` which is the text below the plot
* `source_name` which states the source
* `source_url` which links to the source - but only if a `source_name` is provided.

If you want to edit specific arguments in your plot, you can use the arguments `data`, `visualize`, `describe` and `publish` to include lists to the API call which change all possible settings in a chart.

When you're finished editing your chart, you might want to publish it:

```{r}
dw_publish_chart(chart_id = CHART_ID)
```

This function returns a URL to the chart and the embed code.

## Under the hood

This package makes heavy use of the [`httr`](https://github.com/r-lib/httr)-package, which on itself is a wrapper of the [curl](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/curl/index.html)-package.

## Further Links

There is a API-documentation with examples [from Datawrapper](https://developer.datawrapper.de/docs/getting-started).
